Course 6: Detection and Response

Using data to see what a threat actor did on my networl

Incident response lifecycle
Monitor and analyze newtork traffic
Processes and procedurs
Interpret logs and alert


NIST CSF 5 core functions
identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover

NIST incident response framework
Preperation
Detection
Containment Eradication and Recovery
Post Incident Activity


All security incidents are an event but not all events are a security incident
Event: observable occurance on a network, system, or device
  Requesting a password reset is logged that something happen
  > A security incident would be if it was done by a threat actor

Who triggered the incident
What Happened
When the incident took place
Where the incident took place
Why the incident occured
> Incident handler's journal

CSIRT / Incident handling team
security Analyst: investigate security alerts to determine if an incdient has occured
Technical Lead: Escalated if the incident is high
Incident coordinator: Cross collaborator ensured everyone is update like public relations
> incident managment and response


Tier 1 SOC analyst
The first tier is composed of the least experienced SOC analysts who are known as level 1s (L1s). They are responsible for:
Monitoring, reviewing, and prioritizing alerts based on criticality or severity
Creating and closing alerts using ticketing systems
Escalating alert tickets to Tier 2 or Tier 3

Tier 2 SOC analyst
The second tier comprises the more experienced SOC analysts, or level 2s (L2s). They are responsible for: 
Receiving escalated tickets from L1 and conducting deeper investigations
Configuring and refining security tools
Reporting to the SOC Lead

Tier 3 SOC lead
The third tier of a SOC is composed of the SOC leads, or level 3s (L3s). These highly experienced professionals are responsible for:
Managing the operations of their team
Exploring methods of detection by performing advanced detection techniques, such as malware and forensics analysis
Reporting to the SOC manager

SOC manager 
The SOC manager is at the top of the pyramid and is responsible for: 
Hiring, training, and evaluating the SOC team members
Creating performance metrics and managing the performance of the SOC team
Developing reports related to incidents, compliance, and auditing
Communicating findings to stakeholders such as executive management   

Other roles
SOCs can also contain other specialized roles such as: 
Forensic investigators: Forensic investigators are commonly L2s and L3s who collect, preserve, and analyze digital evidence related to security incidents to determine what happened.
Threat hunters: Threat hunters are typically L3s who work to detect, analyze, and defend against new and advanced cybersecurity threats using threat intelligence.

-
Incident response plans

incident response procedures
System Information: network diagram and data flow diagram
Other docs: Contact list, forms, etc
> regularly reviewed and inspected and exercise

-
Incident response tools
Tools that Monitor events
Documentation tools to collect and compile evidence

-
Incident's handlers jounral documents the 5W's of an incident

types of documentation: playbooks, incdent handler jounals, policies, plans
no indsutry standard for documentation, tailored to needs and legal requirements

effective documentation reduces confusion. not easily misunderstood
Ticket systems can be used to document too (ex: Jira)
-
IDS / IPS
IDS monitors systems and network activity for abnormal activities
IPS same capabilities of IDS but can take action
  Snort, zeek, kismet, sagan, suricata

Detection categories
As a security analyst, you will investigate alerts that an IDS generates. There are four types of detection categories you should be familiar with:

A true positive is an alert that correctly detects the presence of an attack.
A true negative is a state where there is no detection of malicious activity. This is when no malicious activity exists and no alert is triggered. 
A false positive is an alert that incorrectly detects the presence of a threat. This is when an IDS identifies an activity as malicious, but it isn't. False positives are an inconvenience for security teams because they spend time and resources investigating an illegitimate alert. 
A false negative is a state where the presence of a threat is not detected. This is when malicious activity happens but an IDS fails to detect it. False negatives are dangerous because security teams are left unaware of legitimate attacks that they can be vulnerable to. 


Endpoint detection and response (EDR) is an application that monitors an endpoint for malicious activity. EDR tools are installed on endpoints. 
Remember that an endpoint is any device connected on a network. Examples include end-user devices, like computers, phones, tablets, and more.

EDRs collect endpoint activity data and perform behavioral analysis to identify threat patterns happening on an endpoint. Behavioral analysis uses the power of machine learning and artificial intelligence to analyze system behavior to identify malicious or unusual activity. EDR tools also use automation to stop attacks without the manual intervention of security professionals. 
For example, if an EDR detects an unusual process starting up on a user’s workstation that normally is not used, it can automatically block the process from running.


log data on SIEM
1. collect and aggregate raw data from logs
2. normalize data, removes nonessential attributes, creating consistency and log levels
3. Analyzed via configured rule sets 

April 3 11:01:21 server sshd[1088]: Failed password for user nuhara from 218.124.14.105 port 5023
In a parsed format, the fields and values are extracted and paired making them easier to read and interpret:
host = server
process = sshd
source_user = nuhara
source ip = 218.124.14.105
source port = 5023


SOAR (Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response)
Collection of applications, tools, workflows that automate analysis and response to security events.
Track response to security events and incidents
-
Understand Network Traffic

Clearly summarize what you need to say
Working with an open mindset
-
Data is sent all over the world sometimes it might get saved in unsafe places

network traffic
network data
> how do you know what is normal traffic in network traffic if there is so much
    Create a baseline

IOC (Indicators of Compromise) observable evidence that suggest signs of a potential security incident
Data exfiltration: unauthorized transmission of data from a syste,

Monitoring network:
Baseline
Flow analysis: monitor the movement of packets which have detailed headers. 
  (C2) Command and Control: maintain communication with compromised systems such as compromised port
packet payload information is often encrypted within the packet but can be an indiicator if sensitive data is transmitting outside the newtork


security operations centers (SOC) and their role in monitoring systems against security threats and attacks
SOC is focused on maintaining the security of an organization through detection and response

network operations center (NOC), which is an organizational unit that monitors the performance of a network and responds to any network disruption, such as a network outage.
NOC is responsible for maintaining network performance, availability, and uptime

-
Data exfiltration: 
Attacker finds away into the system 
Lateral movement and pivoting to maintain being detected and enumerate
> Once they find data they want to have they can reduce the size and then exfiltrate / bring out the data 

Defense:
Prevent attacker access
Monitor network activity
Protect Assets
Detect and stop the exfilitration
  large internal file transfers, large external uploads, unexpected file writes

-
packet and packet capture

Header: protocol, source, destination
Payload: actual data
Footer: end (most protocols don't use)

(P-Cap) Packet Capture: intercepted packets
To do this you must turn your NIC into monitor mode as it currently only listens to its own network



Libpcap is a packet capture library designed to be used by Unix-like systems, like Linux and MacOS®. Tools like tcpdump use Libpcap as the default packet capture file format. 
WinPcap is an open-source packet capture library designed for devices running Windows operating systems. It’s considered an older file format and isn’t predominantly used.
Npcap is a library designed by the port scanning tool Nmap that is commonly used in Windows operating systems.
PCAPng is a modern file format that can simultaneously capture packets and store data. Its ability to do both explains the “ng,” which stands for “next generation.”

Filter as there is a lot of packets

IP header: 
ipv4 and ipv6 headers are different

tcpdump command on cli can include flags to filter

-
Detection and analysis

Analyzing alerts: investigation and evaluation to detrmine if an incdident has occured

Challenge to detect everything is its impossible to detect everything
high volume of alerts, can be by misconfigured alerts (too broad)
too narrow and you might miss 

Threat hunting: human driven detection tools to uncover malicious activity not causght by automationj tools
  fileless malware

threat intelligence, which is evidence-based threat information that provides context about existing or emerging threats. 
Industry reports: reports on attacker tactics, techniques and procedures
Government advisories
Threat data feed
> Threat intelligence platforms aggregate this data

cyber deception
deliberately deceiving malicous actors to increase detection and improving defensive strategies
  Honeypot: systems or resources that are created as decoys vulnerable to attacks with the purpose of attracting potential intruders.
  > File label "credit card information" will alert security teams once this is tried to be accessed

-
Indicators of compromise (IoCs) are observable evidence that suggests signs of a potential security incident.
Indicators of attack (IoA) are the series of observed events that indicate a real-time incident.
Essentially, IoCs help to identify the who and what of an attack after it's taken place, while IoAs focus on finding the why and how of an ongoing or unknown attack.

Pyramid of Pain
captures the relationship between indicators of compromise and the level of difficulty that malicious actors experience when indicators of compromise are blocked by 
security teams.

By adding context to an IoC—for instance, identifying other artifacts related to the suspicious IP address, such as suspicious network communications or unusual 
processes—security teams can start to develop a detailed picture of a security incident. 
This context can help security teams detect security incidents faster and take a more informed approach in their response.

ISACs(nformation Sharing and Analysis Centers)
Crowdsourcing allows people and organizations from the global cybersecurity community to openly share and access a collection
of threat intelligence data, which helps to continuously improve detection technologies and methodologies. 

Once an organization detects an attack, they can immediately publish the attack details, such as malicious files,
IP addresses, or URLs, to tools like VirusTotal. This threat intelligence can then help other organizations defend against the same attack.
-
Documentation for scaling
  Transparency
  Standardization
  Clarity
  > maintain and update with changes

-
Chain of custody
Documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle
Movement of evidence: who, why, and when did someone handle this evidence
> help meet legal standards for integrity, reliability and accuracy of evidence

Broken chain of custody

-
Playbooks have checklist allow effective resolution

Playbooks
non automated
automated: automate a part of the process of a playbook

> SOAR and SIEM tools can be configured to do this








































