Foundations of Cybersecurity

eight security domains. 
common security frameworks and controls. 
tools and programming languages that entry-level security analysts may use

Study group: https://lu.ma/GoogleCareerCertificatesStudyGroup?utm_source=course
Cyber Community: https://www.coursera.support/s/google-cybersecurity-community

Beginner roles:
1) Security analyst: monitor and protect IS
- protecting computer by monitoring
- instal prevention software
- conducting security audits

2) security Enginge
- operations: respoinding to detections and doing investigations
- Projects: teams to build new detections and improve existing ones

---
key terms:
- Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.
- Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. A checklist
- Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.
- Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. 
- A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.
- An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. 
- Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. CIA
- Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users..

PII: personally identifiable information
SPII: sensitive PII


analyst technical skills:
programming language
Security information and event mangament (SIEM)
Computer Forensics


---
Module 2:

History
Morris worm: lead to the establishment of security incident response
Equifax: lack of judiciary duty led to signiciant financial consequences of breaches became aparent

Terms:
Viruses: program that modifies other computer programs by inserting its own code to damage and/or destroy data
Malware: software designed to harm devices / network
worm: self replicates and spreads across a network
randomeware: encryption of data to demand for payment to restore access
spyware: software spying on and stealing user data without permission 
usb baiting: hreat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and unknowingly infect a network

phising: tricking people to reveal sensitive data or deploy malicious software through digital communicate
vishing: phising via voice communicatication
BEC (business email compromise): threat actor impersonates a known source to obtain a financial advantage
Spear phising: targeted physing to appear that it is fromn a trusted source
social media phising: collecting detailed information about their target on social media
whaling: subset of spear phising where executives are targeted
water holing attack: threat actor compromises a website frequently visited by a specific group of users

Social engineering: expliot human error to gain unauthroized access
Physical social engineering: threat actor gains unauthorized access to physical location via impersonation


Steps
1) contain the breach
2) investigate the breach


Eight CISSP secuirty domains
1. Security & risk managment: defining security goals based off risk mitigation and law
2. Asset security: foucsing on securing digital and physical asset
3. Security architecture and engineering: optimize data security by having tools are in place  
4. Communications and network Security: manging and securing physical networks
5. Identity and Access Managament: validating identify and creating access roles
6. Security Assesment and Testing: conducting testing and audit to find risk, threat, and vulnerability 
7. Security Operation: conductive investigation and implmenting preventitive measures
8. Software Development Security: use secure coding practices

---
module 3: policy and procedures

Security frameworks and controls
Ethics of security

Security frameworks and controls:
Identifying critial assets to understand which alerts are serious
Purpose: Protecting PII, securing financial information, identifying sedcurity weakness, managing organization risk

Four components: 
1) Identifying a document security goal
- GDPR align with EU's General Data protection regulation (eu citizens have more control of their data)
2) setting guidelines to achieve goals
- do we need to set up new policies?
3) implementing strong security process
4) monitor and communicate results

CIA
Confidentiality: no unauthorized access
Integrity: no unathorized changes
Availability: ensuring its available

NIST CSF (cybsercuirty framework)
voluntary guideline for organizations to improve cybersecurity practices for  long + short term risk mitigation
Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover, Govern
> CSF provides a structured, ongoing process for improving and managing cybersecurity. 
It focuses on long-term strategic alignment with best practices and regulatory standards.

Risk Assessment Report focuses on specific vulnerabilities and the immediate risks to the system, offering a snapshot of potential weaknesses and their consequences.

Ethics of security:
Adhere to protocols no matter what
confidentiality: don't expose PII 
privacy: safeguarding personal information
law: avoid negligence and shortcut

Deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal as it might scalate to internatinoal implicaiton
you can only defemds

The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if: 
The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.
The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.
The counterattack does not escalate the situation.
The counterattack effects can be reversed.

---
Module 4: tools to mitigate risk
Log: record of events within org system can identify

SIEM tools: collects and alalyze log data for critical activities in real time
- Splunk: self hosted tool
- Google's chronicle: cloud native
> dashboard to identify potential incidence and tell a story
playbooks: manual on how to respond
- chain of custody & protecting and how to protect and preserve evidence
network protocl analyzer (packet sniffer): capture and analyze data
- TCPDump
- Wireshark
linux OS
- open source OS, relying on CLI
programming language (SQL, python)
- automate with python
- SQL to filter data

Web vulnerabilities mitigation
- Antivirus software
- Intrusion Detection System
- Encryption
- Pen testing


Portfolio Idea:
Drafting a professional statement
Conducting a security audit
Analyzing network structure and security
Using Linux commands to manage file permissions
Applying filters to SQL queries
Identifying vulnerabilities for a small business
Documenting incidents with an incident handler’s journal 
Importing and parsing a text file in a security-related scenario
Creating or revising a resume
