Activity Overview
In this activity, you will take on the role of a cybersecurity analyst working for a company that hosts the cooking website, 
yummyrecipesforme.com. Visitors to the website experience a security issue when loading the main webpage. 
Your job is to investigate, identify, document, and recommend a solution to the security problem. 

When investigating the security event, you will review a tcpdump log. 
You will need to identify the network protocols used to establish the connection between the user and the website. 
Network protocols are the communication rules and standards networked devices use to transmit data. Unfortunately, 
malicious actors can also use network protocols to invade and attack private networks. 
Knowing how to identify the protocols commonly used in attacks will help you protect your organization’s network against these types of security events.


Scenario
You are a cybersecurity analyst for yummyrecipesforme.com, a website that sells recipes and cookbooks. 
A former employee has decided to lure users to a fake website with malware. 

The former employee/ hacker executed a brute force attack to gain access to the web host. 
They repeatedly entered several known default passwords for the administrative account until they correctly guessed the right one. 
After they obtained the login credentials, they were able to access the admin panel and change the website’s source code. 
They embedded a javascript function in the source code that prompted visitors to download and run a file upon visiting the website. 
After embedding the malware, the hacker changed the password to the administrative account. 
When customers download the file, they are redirected to a fake version of the website that contains the malware. 

Several hours after the attack, multiple customers emailed yummyrecipesforme’s helpdesk. 
They complained that the company’s website had prompted them to download a file to access free recipes. 
The customers claimed that, after running the file, the address of the website changed and their personal computers began running more slowly. 

In response to this incident, the website owner tries to log in to the admin panel but is unable to, 
so they reach out to the website hosting provider. You and other cybersecurity analysts are tasked with investigating this security event.

To address the incident, you create a sandbox environment to observe the suspicious website behavior. 
You run the network protocol analyzer tcpdump, then type in the URL for the website, yummyrecipesforme.com.
As soon as the website loads, you are prompted to download an executable file to update your browser. 
You accept the download and allow the file to run. You then observe that your browser redirects you to a different URL,
greatrecipesforme.com, which contains the malware.  

The logs show the following process:
The browser initiates a DNS request: It requests the IP address of the yummyrecipesforme.com URL from the DNS server.
The DNS replies with the correct IP address. 
The browser initiates an HTTP request: It requests the yummyrecipesforme.com webpage using the IP address sent by the DNS server.
The browser initiates the download of the malware.
The browser initiates a DNS request for greatrecipesforme.com.
The DNS server responds with the IP address for greatrecipesforme.com.
The browser initiates an HTTP request to the IP address for greatrecipesforme.com.

A senior analyst confirms that the website was compromised. The analyst checks the source code for the website. 
They notice that javascript code had been added to prompt website visitors to download an executable file. 
Analysis of the downloaded file found a script that redirects the visitors’ browsers from yummyrecipesforme.com to greatrecipesforme.com. 
The cybersecurity team reports that the web server was impacted by a brute force attack. 
The disgruntled hacker was able to guess the password easily because the admin password was still set to the default password. 
Additionally, there were no controls in place to prevent a brute force attack. 

Your job is to document the incident in detail, including identifying the network protocols used to establish the connection between the user and the website.  
You should also recommend a security action to take to prevent brute force attacks in the future.


----
TCP Flag codes include:
Value	Flag Type	Description
S	    SYN	  Connection Start
F	    FIN	  Connection Finish
P	    PUSH	Data push
R	    RST	  Connection reset
.	    ACK	  Acknowledgment
[S.] for a SYN-ACK packet.
Followed by the ack number
window size (win 30) bytes available in the receiving buffer
maybe Followed by MSS (max segment size)
length 372 (length of payload data) in bytes 

Timestamp IP SourceIP.SourcePort > Destination IP. Destination Port
20: 00 : 29.53895 IP 198.168.10.1.14 ? 198.111.123.1.61012: Flags

---
14:18:36.786589 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags
[P.], seq 1:74, ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr
3302576859], length 73: HTTP: GET / HTTP/1.1
14:18:36.786595 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags
[.], ack 74, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859],
length 0
...<a lot of traffic on the port 80>...

14:20:32.192571 IP your.machine.52444 > dns.google.domain: 21899+ A?
greatrecipesforme.com. (24)
14:20:32.204388 IP dns.google.domain > your.machine.52444: 21899 1/0/0 A
192.0.2.17 (40)
---
Section 1: Identify the network protocol involved in the incident
The HTTP protocol was identified as the vector used to reroute users to a fraudulent website, greatrecipesforme.com.

Analysis of tcpdump logs revealed that the malicious activity originated from HTTP traffic at the application layer.
When users attempted to access the legitimate webpage, they were prompted to download a file. 
Upon execution, this file directed their systems to query the DNS server for the replicated domain.

Section 2: Document The Incedent
Inital Awarness: 
The IT team was alerted after multiple customers reported issues to the help desk. 
They noted that accessing the legitimate website prompted a file download claiming to provide free recipes. 
Executing the file caused significant system slowdown and redirected users to a different web address.
The website owner reported being locked out of the admin panel and unable to regain control through the hosting provider.

Analysis and Observations:
A cybersecurity analyst established a sandbox environment to safely investigate the suspicious behavior. 
Using a network protocol analyzer alongside tcpdump logs, the analyst identified:

HTTP requests querying the IP address for the legitimate domain (yummyrecipesforme.com).
Upon executing the downloaded file, subsequent traffic was redirected to the malicious domain (greatrecipesforme.com).
Further inspection of the tcpdump logs confirmed the malicious file download and subsequent redirection of browser traffic.

A senior cybersecurity professional conducted a code review of the web server and discovered that the attacker had 
manipulated the site’s code to deliver the malicious file.

Root Cause:
The attacker likely used a brute force attack to compromise the admin account. 
The default password had not been changed, and no controls were in place to mitigate brute force attempts, 
enabling unauthorized access and password changes.


Section 3: Recommend one or more remediations for brute force attacks
To reduce the risk of future brute force attacks, the following measures are recommended:

Password Policy Enhancements:
Enforce strict password complexity requirements and prohibit the reuse of previous passwords.
Require periodic password changes for all admin accounts.
Account Lockout Controls:

Implement controls to lock accounts after a limited number of failed login attempts.
Generate alerts for repeated failed login attempts to enable rapid detection and response.
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA):

Require MFA for all administrative logins.
Use a trusted third-party MFA solution, such as Cisco Duo Security, to add an additional layer of protection.

These recommendations align with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) by emphasizing protection and detection capabilities to prevent and mitigate unauthorized access.



































