Activity Overview

In this activity, you will be presented with a scenario about a social media organization that 
recently experienced a major data breach caused by undetected vulnerabilities. 

To address the breach, you will identify some common network hardening tools that can be implemented to protect the organization’s overall security. 
Then, you will select a specific vulnerability that the company has and propose different network hardening methods.
Finally, you will explain how the methods and tools you chose will be effective for managing the vulnerability and how they will prevent potential breaches in the future

---
Scenario
You are a security analyst working for a social media organization. 
The organization recently experienced a major data breach, which compromised the safety of their customers’ personal information, 
such as names and addresses. Your organization wants to implement strong network hardening practices that can be performed consistently to prevent attacks and breaches in the future. 

After inspecting the organization’s network, you discover four major vulnerabilities. 
The four vulnerabilities are as follows:

The organization’s employees' share passwords.
The admin password for the database is set to the default.
The firewalls do not have rules in place to filter traffic coming in and out of the network.
Multifactor authentication (MFA) is not used. 

If no action is taken to address these vulnerabilities, the organization is at risk of experiencing another data breach or other attacks in the future. 
In this activity, you will write a security risk assessment to analyze the incident and explain what methods can be used to further secure the network.

---
Security risk assessment report

Part 1: 
Three hardening tools that the and methods that should be implemented to address the current vulnerabilities:
1. Set and enforce password polcies
2. Set port filtering and enforce regular firewall maintenance
3. Implement MFA (multifactor authentication)

The National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) latest recommendations for password policies focuses on using methods to salt and hash passwords, 
rather than requiring overly complex passwords or enforcing frequent changes to passwords. 
Making it computationally expensive to brute force attack.

A firewall function that blocks or allows certain port numbers to limit unwanted communication.
Firewall maintenance entails checking and updating security configurations regularly to stay ahead of potential threats.

A security measure which requires a user to verify their identity in two or more ways to access a system or network. 
MFA options include a password, pin number, badge, one-time password (OTP) sent to a cell phone, fingerprint, and more.


Part 2: Explain your recommendations
Password policies are used to prevent attackers from easily guessing user passwords, either manually 
or by using a script to attempt thousands of stolen passwords (commonly called a brute force attack).

A one time set up of port filtering can control network traffic and can prevent potential attackers from entering a private network.
Having a smaller attack surface makes it easier to manage and prevent threat actors from exploiting vulnerabilities.
Then regular maintance rules can be updated in response to events that allows abnormal network traffic into the network. 
This measure can be used to protect against various DDoS attacks.

MFA can furhter protect against brute force attacks as well and create further defense from threat actors.
Makes it more difficult for threat actors to impersonate authorized users.






