Intro:

eight security domains. 
common security frameworks and controls. 
tools and programming languages that entry-level security analysts may use

Study group: https://lu.ma/GoogleCareerCertificatesStudyGroup?utm_source=course
Cyber Community: https://www.coursera.support/s/google-cybersecurity-community

Beginner roles:
1) Security analyst: monitor and protect IS
- protecting computer by monitoring
- instal prevention software
- conducting security audits

2) security Enginge
- operations: respoinding to detections and doing investigations
- Projects: teams to build new detections and improve existing ones

---
key terms:
- Compliance is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.
- Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy. A checklist
- Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.
- Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. 
- A threat actor, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.
- An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. 
- Network security is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. CIA
- Cloud security is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users..

PII: personally identifiable information
SPII: sensitive PII


analyst technical skills:
programming language
Security information and event mangament (SIEM)
Computer Forensics


---
Module 2:

History
Morris worm: lead to the establishment of security incident response
Equifax: lack of judiciary duty led to signiciant financial consequences of breaches became aparent

Terms:
Viruses: program that modifies other computer programs by inserting its own code to damage and/or destroy data
Malware: software designed to harm devices / network
worm: self replicates and spreads across a network
randomeware: encryption of data to demand for payment to restore access
spyware: software spying on and stealing user data without permission 
usb baiting: hreat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and unknowingly infect a network

phising: tricking people to reveal sensitive data or deploy malicious software through digital communicate
vishing: phising via voice communicatication
BEC (business email compromise): threat actor impersonates a known source to obtain a financial advantage
Spear phising: targeted physing to appear that it is fromn a trusted source
social media phising: collecting detailed information about their target on social media
whaling: subset of spear phising where executives are targeted
water holing attack: threat actor compromises a website frequently visited by a specific group of users

Social engineering: expliot human error to gain unauthroized access
Physical social engineering: threat actor gains unauthorized access to physical location via impersonation


Steps
1) contain the breach
2) investigate the breach


Eight CISSP secuirty domains
1. Security & risk managment
2. Asset security
3. Security architecture and engineering
4. Communications and network Security
5. Identity and Access Managament
6. Secyruty Assesment and Testing
7. Security Operation
8. Software Development Security
